Come on. cancer. cancer. cancer.
Tom?
Tom. can you hear me?
You don't have to do this.
Yes. you do!
Don't listen to him.
Patricia.
Tom.
Keep them in the shelter.
And keep an eye on my son.
Tom. wait.
Ruth!
Ruth?
Oh. Tom.
- Oh. you scared me.
- I'm-I'm so sorry.
I… …I tried
ringing and knocking.
Oh. What are you doing here?
You came to take me to the shelter.
Oh. Tom.
I thought you all had forgotten about me.
- Never.
- I'll pack.
I'll be quick.
Actually. um. you know.
the roads are pretty flooded right now.
so may-maybe we should
just hunker down here.
Well.
we've weathered storms together before.
haven't we?
We have.
Oh! Let me get you a towel.
- Oh.
- Oh. you and me both.
I did two miles.
200 cans of water.
A hundred MREs.
How many people do we have?
137.
All right.
Half-shares for kids. I can do without.
- Yeah.
- Gal who had my job before me.
she told me to never go into this shelter.
And why would that be?
She never said.
Rosemary.
how's that story helpful right now?
I guess we're not in the mood
for conversation.
No. I guess we're not.
Okay.
We got a lot of people in one place.
Under pressure. things turn fast.
We have to keep them calm. Yeah?
Yeah.
You hear that?
Their voices.
They're getting louder.
Okay. Everything looks fine.
Probably a false alarm.
- Can I speak to you outside?
- Uh. yeah.
The baby's coming tonight.
What? No.
No. no. no. no. That can't happen.
I mean. uh. that's impossible.
She's not due for another seven weeks.
I'm sorry. I didn't realize
you went to medical school.
I'm worried about my herb garden.
You think it's gonna be okay?
I think so.
How about some tea?
Please.
Okay.
That's a very f-full calendar.
Oh. yes. I keep busy.
Still very active.
"Story Club"?
Oh. some of us write stories
and then get together to share them.
You know.
that's how Frankenstein was written.
I'm no Mary Shelley of course.
but we have a lot of fun.
"Help Deirdre down.
Help Deirdre up."
Who's Deirdre?
You know Deirdre Kane.
She's tough as nails.
but she still needs help getting down
her porch every morning
and then back up after lunch.
Otherwise. she's stuck in there
all day long.
You do that every day?
Oh. it's nothing. I'm happy to do it.
Can I use your bathroom?
What?
- Can I use your bathroom?
- Oh. sure.
It's just right around here. to the right.
What the fuck am I doing? We're going…
We're going off Rosemary's genealogy?
Patricia. is Evan okay? Patricia?
This should warm you up.
I make my tea from my own herb garden.
I made a peppermint.
which is a pick-me-up.
and I made a chamomile and lavender.
which is calm and soothing.
So. you pick.
Let's-Let's do calm and soothing.
Okay. That's nice.
This one steeps for 27 minutes.
What? No. no.
- Uh. how long does the other one take?
- Three minutes.
Oh. let's-let's do that.
But I already put this one in.
Let's just do the other one.
I'm not gonna waste herbs. Tom.
I finally got you in my house.
I'm going to give you a proper tour.
Come on. Come on.
Don't be such a sad sack. Come on.
- Here you go.
- Where's the bathroom?
Bathroom is that way.
Hey there. little guy.
Take that.
Here you go. And…
Patricia.
Uh. quick question.
How much longer are we gonna be down here?
- Uh…
- Ash Wednesday Nor'easter
of '62 lasted five days.
But here. on this island.
we've had storms last twice that.
Yeah. we have shelter.
power. plenty of food and water.
We'll ride this out. Okay?
Look for ways to distract people.
More games. cards. anything.
Games. Cards.
Uh. Patty. have you seen Tom?
I really need to talk to him right now.
Um. I don't know. Sorry.
A paramedic
was stabbed last night.
What?
Hey.
- I found something.
- What?
I found a way out.
- Okay.
- Way out.
- Come on. I got a joint. Let's smoke it.
- I…
- Yes. Okay.
- Yeah. you can come too. Sure. come on.
- Come on.
- No. I don't think…
Okay.
Creepy.
- Don't fall down.
- Mmm.
What is this place?
Can we go?
Evan? Come on.
Yeah. let's do it.
So. you're an offering.
You've been carefully selected
by a committee of your peers
in a very fair.
very rigorous selection process.
Maybe you've committed a crime.
Or owe a debt to society.
Or have been found wanting in some way.
Although you'll never know.
take comfort in the fact
that there is an absolutely
unassailable reason you're here.
Accept your fate and take pride.
Your sacrifice will save countless members
of our community from needless suffering.
Thank you again for your sacrifice.
Widow's Bay thanks you.
This is where Evan stays.
Picked that up at a yard sale.
Boys love their cars.
Mmm.
- What's that?
- Oh.
He asked for an emergency ladder.
in case of fire.
So smart.
Yeah.
Oh.
My Alfred.
I loved him so much.
Old boyfriend?
Yes.
But he got bit by an animal
and became that animal.
Oh. this was a thrill.
Keith Martin.
He made a pass.
Oh. My first day as a secretary
to the mayor. Howard the Coward.
He was a decent man.
I was surprised when he left.
but people get scared.
He made a pass.
Oh. Pastor Roberts. What a gem.
He was like a father to me.
Please don't tell me he made a pass.
No. don't be silly. Of course… not.
Oh. you know what?
You're right. he did make a pass.
So did she.
Oh. is that… is that your parents?
Oh. yes.
Wait. is that this house?
That's right.
Yeah. My… My daddy built this house.
Really?
Back when they did things right.
It's been through some hard times.
but it's still standing.
But…
…something got Daddy in the lake.
Jesus. Ruth.
You've really been through it.
Well. one of the benefits
of growing up in Widow's Bay
is that we learn to weather the storms.
It shouldn't have to be that way.
It shouldn't. but it is.
There's no way around it.
What if there was?
How do you mean?
I-I-I don't know.
I mean. what… what if. um…
What if there was something
that you could do to change things?
What-What would you be willing
to do for that?
Have you ever heard of the…
the trolley problem?
You mean back in '42 when we tried to
build one and all the workers disappeared?
No. What? No. No.
So…
…imagine there's a runaway trolley
and-and it's barreling down the tracks
and it's gonna plow through a-a-a crowd.
A big crowd of people.
Now. there's a lever that you can pull
that'll divert it to a different track.
where it will only hit one person.
Would you… Would you pull the lever?
Oh. I get it.
And then all those people would be saved?
Yes. Yes. exactly.
Well. I wouldn't pull the lever.
- But-But you'd have to.
- So I don't have a choice?
- Then what's the question?
- No. I mean. yes. You have a choice.
Um. But…
But not a real one.
because if you don't pull that lever.
all those people will die.
- Well. I wouldn't pull it.
- How could you not pull it?
The runaway trolley is life.
The lever is me.
You can't control the bad things
that happen in life. Tom.
But if I pull that lever. it's a choice.
and I'm choosing to kill that person.
and I could never do that.
There-There's a quote I love.
I've got it up here in cross stitch.
So. I'm gonna read it to you.
"The world is violent and mercurial.
It will have its way with you."
Can't read that. I can't read that part.
Can't… Can't read…
Oh. here. Here it is. Wait.
"We live in a perpetually
burning building.
and what we must save from it
all the time is love."
Tennessee Williams.
Well. let him spend the night at our Inn.
and then he'll see how good
he's got it in the burning building.
Come on. Ruth.
This place is a house of horrors.
Life is a house of horrors.
You should know that
better than anyone. Tom.
I've always worried about you.
You've-You've worried about me?
Why?
You avoid the truth.
I mean. you want this
to be Martha's Vineyard.
It's never gonna be.
There's no bliss
waiting at the finish line.
Even if there was.
it would just be taken away from you
because that's just life.
In all its ugly.
beautiful. terrible glory.
You just…
You just have to accept it.
Ruth?
Where did you find this?
This was passed down to me.
It's a family heirloom.
Isn't it lovely?
It looks beautiful on you.
Thank you.
I'll get it.
Who's next?
Eve. Okay.
There you go.
- Have a nice meal.
- Thank you.
- Thank you. What's your name? Todd?
- Yes.
Have we got a Todd?
W-What is he getting?
A car loan? Let's go. Here.
- Um. Hey…
- Yeah. Tom.
- Um. yes. we met yesterday. Thank you.
- Yes. Tom.
Geez. People are really… …rude.
Jesus Christ.
You gotta be fucking kidding me.
This is covered in mold. everyone.
Okay. Well. let us…
- W-We'll get you another...
- Mine are bad too. And-And the water.
Okay. Well. we'll. um. sort through these
- and. um...
- Mine are fine.
Huh?
- Bro. give me your...
- No. no. no! Hey!
Whoa! Hey! Hey!
Excuse me. Hey. hey. you.
I want his stash. I want his stash.
- Hey. Don't hit him!
- Hey. Ow!
What the fuck are we supposed to do
about food around here?
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa! Hey!
We're gonna s… Whoa!
We're gonna sort it all out. people.
Don't worry. just be calm. all right?
He's right.
We can go weeks without food.
But not without water.
Oh. fucking Christ.
That's what we're saying.
We need some fucking water.
The hell is wrong
with this island?
Hey.
You know what I think?
I think that this is gonna be
a funny story we tell our kid some day.
Being born
on some crazy island shelter.
With all these crazy people.
Oh.
I need water
for my wife.
I saved these two for you.
Thanks.
What the hell is going on down here?
And how is Loftis not here?
Who knows?
Something's off though.
What?
Had me do a whole genealogy on Ruth.
Do you know how long that took?
Then the three of them huddle up
and whisper like little schoolgirls.
Didn't include me.
Guess I'll go fuck myself.
Patricia.
What the hell is going on?
What is Loftis doing?
Barricade this door and don't
let anyone in till I get back.
Honey? Honey. w-what's going on?
Uh. I'll be right back.
- What? What are you talking about?
- I just have something I need to do.
No. Lis… Listen to me. Bechir.
When Lauren died. I didn't know…
I didn't know what
I was gonna do with myself.
You know she tried to talk to me about it?
The island. And. um…
I laughed it off.
I teased her about it.
I don't understand why
I didn't just listen.
And after that ferry ride.
when they told me it was a stroke…
I-I knew…
I knew and I still brought tourists here.
Because I wanted more for him…
And myself.
And now I've put
all these people in danger.
There are families in the shelters.
I have families that…
I've brought here.
I'm sorry.
But I had to make it right.
Whoo!
Where was I?
Oh. That was the summer
my Aunt Betty stopped speaking.
First we thought she was pouting.
but then it turns out
it was something else.
Whoa.
PJ!
Guys. check this shit out.
Oh. dude. come here.
Look at this shit.
Can you believe this?
I've never heard anyone talk about…
Come on.
Yo. guys. there's another door.
Come here. Check this out.
Whoa.
Kelly. sit in the chair.
Dude. I can't.
I think you actually have to.
Dude.
Oh. my God. This is so weird.
This is not right.
Wait. What is this?
At this point. I'd prefer
to be out there. I really would.
It's in our best interest to
stay inside until the storm passes.
- But why is the door locked?
- No reason for that door to be locked.
You don't have the authority
to keep us in here.
Keep your voice down. Hey!
Sorry. Sorry.
Just stay where you are!
Whoa. Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
- Keep your voices down.
- It's time.
- It's okay. Everything's okay.
It's time. It's time.
Listen to your facilitator.
Move forward.
- Do not beg.
- What?
What the fuck?
That's probably what she meant.
Be strong. Honor the pact.
And remember.
their sacrifice is our survival.
The bad times will not end until the
covenant is honored. and honored fully.
Life for life.
The island will make its needs known.
One soul for each bell toll.
You will be tempted to comfort them.
Do not.
Their fear is necessary.
They say It likes the taste.
Now. let's pray for
a long and peaceful slumber.
Whoa! Nobody panic.
Nobody move. it's okay.
It's all right.
It's okay.
- Just stay where you are!
- Don't move!
Whoa. sorry. It's fine.
It's all right.
We're all okay.
We're just…
- We're just gonna ride this out together.
- Yeah.
I know we're all scared.
But we have each other.
- Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
- Don't we?
Yeah? We're in it together?
Okay. Okay.
Dale?
This place is…
Dale. you're freaking people out.
This place is a death trap!
Run!
Run for your lives!
Patricia.
Patricia. she. uh…
She's… She's not going.
Can you please just
tell me that Evan is okay?
Patricia?
What's happening?
What… What's happening?
Patricia. what's happening?
You're a good person.
- Hmm.
- You don't deserve this.
You know…
I had an affair with a married man.
That's okay.
I was young.
That's not true. I was 40.
I'd love to tell you I didn't know
he was married. but I did.
I wanted him to leave his wife.
but he wouldn't.
I got pregnant.
I hid it.
I just was not in a good place.
I cried.
Oh. how I cried.
I cried all the time.
So. I gave her to him.
To raise with his wife as their own.
I watched my baby girl grow up from afar.
She had a nice childhood.
They loved her.
Who?
She died.
But I watched her first dance.
I saw her drive her first car.
I saw her work her first job
serving soft-served ice cream.
And I got to watch her
fall in love with you. Tom.
What?
My baby girl. Lauren.
Your wife.
You're not making any sense.
I felt so awful after the ferry.
I visited her at Old Home
as often as I could.
I told her I was her secret mommy.
No. No. I…
I d… I don't believe you.
Why do you think I still come in to work?
I'm 84 years old. Tom.
I'm tired.
I come in to still be
a part of my grandson's life.
It feels so good to
finally say all this out loud.
No. No. no. No. no.
- To unburden myself…
- No. no. There's no way.
- …after all these years.
- There's no way.
- You're… You're out of your mind.
- I don't know why I chose tonight.
Oh. my God.
Pull-out method just doesn't work.
- No!
- Oh.
Who else have you told. Ruth?
No one. Tom! No one!
No one. no one.
Oh. my God.
He's never gonna leave the island.
Oh. Ruth.
I have to get you to a doctor.
Hold tight. Ready?
One. two. three.
No!
What did you do?
I won't damn my child.
No. No. no. no. no. no.
- Ruth?
- Patricia said you'd be ending it but…
- Hey. I knew...
- She's not the last.
I-I knew you wouldn't.
She's not the last descendant!
What?
Then who?
Who. Tom?
Who?
Okay. Bechir. put it down.
Please. please p-put it down.
Put the gun down.
Look. my child is about to be
born and I just need to know who.
I-I don't know.
Wait. what is this thing?
Stick it in your eye
and it keeps it open…
You know what?
You get in the chair.
- Strap me into it.
- For real?
- Yeah.
- Okay.
PJ!
- You're insane.
- Hey!
PJ Glanville. get your ass
out of that weird fucking chair.
- Now!
- Okay. I'm trying to.
- Come on.
- Sorry.
Sorry.
Get outta here.
- Whoa. Open up!
- The fuck? Come on.
- It's locked.
- Open this door now!
- Go. Go. go. go!
- Wait!
- Open up!
- Guys! Guys! What…
- Something's happening.
- It's locked!
- Open the door!
- I'm-I'm trying!
Oh. God. Oh. God!
You are always lying.
It stopped.
Why did it stop?
Ruth.
Ruth? Ruth?
Oh. fuck.
Tom?
Will you fucking help me?
We need to get her to a doctor.
- Ruth. Talk to me.
- Why did it stop?
Whoa.
You're okay. You're okay.
You're okay. Stay there.
He must've done it.